&nbsp;
<h2>era of good feelings</h2>
Monroe's presidency marked the time known as the era of good feelings. During this time, the nation was growing and the political atmosphere was relatively friendly due to the nearly complete disappearance of the Federalist party.
<h2>nationalism</h2>
The ability of ht eUnited States to contend with a major such as Britain in the war of 1812 as well the nations settlement expansion and industrial growth established a sense of unity and pride in Americans under the presidency of Monroe. The era was dominated by a strong feeling of Patriotism.
<h2>Economic Plans</h2>
Tarriff of 1816

A protective tarriff that would promote American manufacturing with most New England States in favor of the tarriff along with the south mostly in favor. John C Calhoun and Thomas Jefferson favored the tarriff, while Daniel Webster opposed the tariff.

the american system

Henry Clay's American system included a three part plan to advance America's economic Prosperity

National Bank

Protective Tariffs

international improvements

more john marshall

John marshall ruled on several more cases after Marbury Madison, where he established the judicial branch's power to enact judicial review under Thomas Jefferson, however in Monroe and Madison's Presidency he also ruled on cases in a way that granted more power to the central government.

panic of 1819

Due to the failure of the Second Bank of the United States to control inflation, many banks closed, money became less valuable, and the nation was in poor economic standing altogether in an economic crissi known as the Panic of 1819. Large amounts of western farmland were foreclosed, and westerners began opposing the national bank.

Missouri Compromise and Henry Clay and tallmadge amendment

There was initially a balance betwen slave and non slave states in the Union, when suddenly missouri from the louisiana purcahsed applied for statehood. There was slavery in the territory, so northerners were afraid to led Missouri enter the union as a aslave state and tip the sectionalism balacen. To help quell the issue, Henry Clay proposed a compromise known and the Missouri compromise which had a three part plan

Missouri would enter the union as a slave state

Maine would be admitted as a free state

All new states north of the latitudinal line 36' 30'' would have slavery prohibited.

General progress under madison and monroe

After the war of 1812, westward settlement had increased rapidly. Native Americans were being cleared from their lands, farmers and plantations needed more space and land, immigrants increased the size of the American population, and roads and canals allowed for easier movement westward.

rush bagot agreement of 1817

Britain and America establihed an agreement to limit military fortifications along the American-Canadian border, marking the beginning of the the largest unfortified border history in the world.

Adams Onis Treaty

Latin American Trade

Russian Claims of Alaksa

Monroe Doctrine

Feeling threatened by renewed interests that European nations had in colonizing in America, Monroe's powerful words in the Monroe doctrine made it clear that any attempt to colonize or settle in the Western HEmisphere by any European nation would result in aggression by the United States. Britain initially wanted to support America in its attempt to dissuade other European nations from actively settling and increasing trade in the Western Hemisphere because it believed it had a common interest, but in the end Monroe's words made it clear that the doctrine applied to Britain as well and the U.S. stood alone and certain in the matter.

Fall of the Federalists

It fell after its crushing defeat in 1816 and did not elect a presidential candidate in 1820

Election of 1824/ corrupt bargain

transportation

The construction of interstate roads,and canals, specifically the Erie canal, stimulated trade and westward settlement. The Erie canal was built in new York and its success spurred the building of new canals that connected the east and west, helping the economy and also helped with settlement. Railroads also became a more safe, prevalent, and reliable source of transportation as well as a method to carry cargo.

industrial revolution

In the early 1800s, America became a world leader in manufacturing and the field soon surpassed agriculture in value in America. The growth was attributed to numerous mechanical and technological advances tht came about, marking the era known as the industrial revolution.

Samuel Slater invented and expanded cotton mill factories in the U.S., making New England a leader in manufacturing.

Eli Whitney invented the cotton gin, making harvesting cotton more efficient, and he also developed a method to make rifles out of interchangeable parts which allowed for more efficient production in a process known as mass prodcution. Robert Fulton created the first steam engine, making boat travel more efficient.

labor conditions

The Lowell system started a movement of attracting laborers by housing them in dormitories while they work as a way of convincing to work in a factory rather than try their luck with settling in cheap land out west. It became more common for worker to become factory workers, and in general the amount of control that women had over their own loives was growing. THey had a choice between staying at the home or becoming a facotry worker at a company like Lowell Systems, whichc was common. Child labor was common, and other poor conditions in the workplace led to frustration among factories workers and eventually led to the estalishment of unions which tried to make work hours and conditions more reasonable. Success was limited due to overly willing immigrant workers, state laws, and economic depression.

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

sectionalism

&nbsp;

south

&nbsp;

cotton and slavery

The south was mainly known for its agriculture, with there being very little manufacturing and industry because farmers and plantation owners though cash crops were more profitable.  The crop that was most commonly harvested in the south was the cash crop, cotton, giving the South the nickname of King Cotton. Cotton was needed by American and british textile mills in high demand. There were large plantations in the south with very large amounts of land and many slaves, but there were much more smaller farms and subsistence farmers that made up the compromised the majority of the white people in the south.

stono rebellion

There was unruliness among the slaves in the south, and in an incident known as the stono rebellion, about twenty slaves tried to escape to Spanish Florida for freedom.

tobacco sugar rice and cotton plantation

Along with cotton plantations, there was also other crops such as sugar, rice, and tobacco grown in the south, with the majority of the farmers being having smaller farms or being subsistence farmers.

reasons for increase in slavery

The demand ffor slaves in the south was increased by the high need for cotton, as well as the intensive manual labor that was required for harvesting cotton, and also Eli Ehitney's inventiob, the cotton gin, made cotton more efficient and profitable.

southerners beliefs

Slavery was part of southern culture, and in a way, southerners justified keeping slaves. They stated that they gave slaves a means of living, a place to sleep, food, a roof over their heads, and technically work that served as a sense of purpose in life. Beliefs such as this was a large part of southern culture and they stood by them firmly with the idea that they were helping the slaves with their lives.

north

immigrants

From about 1830 to the end of of the 1850s, a large amount of immigrants from Ireland and Germany arrived in the United States. Irish immigrant's main motivation for coming to the United States was the failure of their potato crop back at home, as well as the numerous amount of jobs that were availbable in the U.S. with its large amount of new industry.

American response to immigrants

Not all Americans welcomed immigrants into their nation, they felt threatened about them taking their potential jobs, and they also felt they infiltrated their culture by setting up their new communities as well as their Roman Catholicism.

Settlement

The American western frontier was moving and expanding westward, and in the 1830s the mountain men blazed the Oregon Trail.

New States

The lands between the Ohio and Mississippi river were becoming settled, and the land was divided up in five new states: Missouri, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, and Ohio

&nbsp;

Battle of Fallen Timbers

As Americans expanded and settled westward, there were additional encounters with Native Americans. Native Americans were fought by Americans in a battle known as the Battle of Fallen Timbers. In the Treaty of Greenville, it was agreed that Native Americans would open up more of their land to American settlement

In The Black Hawk War, America victories caused the Sauk and Fox tribes to move across the Mississippi River.

&nbsp;