The First Continental Congress

In the colonies in 1774 ater the enactment of the Intolerable Acts, there was a feeling that colonial liberties were being threatened by Britain. This lead to the formation of the First Continental Congress in 1774, where each state would be represented in a convention with the intention of figuring out how to respond to the actions of Britain. All states sent representatives, except for Gerogia. The colonists at the time of the convention were divided into three main groups of colonists with differing opinions on how to deal with British oppression and declarations. The loyalists, or Tories, wanted to obey the crown and not challenge the British government in any way, while there were other moderates who respected the authority of the crown, but wanted to work out matters that they felt were unfair and violating colonial rights. There were also the more radical Patriots, whose pride in America drove them to believe independence was the only way to effectively deal with British violations of colonial rights and liberties. The First Continental Congress wrote up a series of requests for Britain as a way of having them make up for unfair policy of the past. If their measured were not met, they planned to convene again in 1775.

British Response

Angrily rejecting the measures that the Congress called for, the king of Britain sent troops to Massachusetts to suppress what he deemed to be a rebellion; resulting in violent responses from the colonists there.

Lexington and Concord

When the colonists found out that British troops were being sent to Massachusetts, they sent out spies such as Paul Revere to spot the soldiers and warn the colonial militia, known as the minutemen. As British troops arrived at Lexington, they were faced by armed minutemen, when suddenly a shot rang out - it is unknown whether the first shot was from the minutemen or the redcoats - and British soldiers opened fire. The heavy British fire and colonial casualties forced the minutemen to retreat and the redcoats to push on to Concord where they destroyed militia battle supplies.

The Second Continental Congress

&nbsp;

The Olive Branch Petition: In an attempt to make peace with Britain, the delegates signed the petition and sent it to the king that requested that the king recognize their rights instead of continue fighting, although the king did not heed their plea and instead declared that the colonies were in a state of rebellion.

Declaration of the Causes and Necessities for Taking up Arms:  Recognized the necessity of taking up arms against Britain, while putting George Washington in charge of the colonial army. The colonists also established a navy to attack British ships.

The Declaration of Independence : The convention formed and signed the document that formally declared the colonies independence from Britain. Thomas Jefferson was the main author of the document, which contained four main section. The Declaration identified the King as the main catalyst for independence and also spelt out motives and causes for separation.

The Articles of Confederation: The first American constitution. It was drafted in 1776, although it gave very few powers to the new colonial government.

African Americans in the War

African American slaves were at first prohibited to fight for the colonial by the wish of georgge Washington, although once the british army promised freedom to all slaves who fought for them, George Washington made the same promise to slaves; About 5,000 African American slaves fought for the colonists in the war.

Native Americans in the War

Native Americans were at first neutral in the war, although later on they joined the British efforts in an attempt to quell colonial settlement westward.

Evolution of the War

Washington's troops took heavy losses at New York and Philadelphia during 1776 and 1777, and had trouble surviving at Valley Forge starting at the end of 1777. British control of ports also sharply decreased colonial trade.

As early as 1776, France had been sending the colonists supplies, although in 1778, they recognized them as a separate country and formally joined them in the war as an ally, sending them more supplies, money, and troops. The Netherlands, Spain, and other countries attacked the British navy during the war.

In 1778, the Patriots captured a series of British forts near the Ohio territory. Soon after, the British began a southern strategy where they concentrated most of the fighting in the south to gain support from the numerous loyalists or Tories there. Approximately 25% of the colonial population at the time consisted of Tories.

One of the final and decisive battles of the wars was fought at Yorktown in 1781 at Yorktown where George Washington and the French navy forced the surrender of General Cornwallis' large army.

The Treaty of Paris was signed in 1783 at the recognition of the Patriots' victory. The treaty arranged the following provisions and conditions

Britain would recognize America as an independent nation

The new nation of America would extent as far west as the Mississippi River

Americans would be able to fish off the coast of Canada

Americans would pay off the British and loyalists for property confiscated during the war.

After becoming an independent nations, each colony wrote and ratified their own state constitutions through their state legislatures. Each state constitution included a bill of rights of list of the citizens rights in the state.

The articles of confederation

The articles of confederation that were drafted and signed by the second continental congress at philadelphia in 1776 were used to govern the new nation of America since its ratification in 1781 to 1789. Due to a fear of returning to the state of tyranny that existed under the crown, the Articles of Confederation gave the power almost entirely to the people and gave very little power to the central government. The Articles of Confederation granted the following powers to the central government:

Congress was given the power to wage war.

Congress could make treaties and send diplomats to foreign countries.

Congress borrow money.

Although the Articles made the American government far too weak and restricted it from certain necessary powers, it could help attribute to certain accomplishments such as the Land Ordinance of 1785 and the Northwest Land Ordinance of 1787. The Land Ordinance of 1785 set up a process for settling and claiming new lands westward while setting up townships and education systems along the way. The Northwest Land  Ordinance of 1787 established rules that were to be followed when creating new states that included the prohibition of slavery.

Slavery

After the War, some northern states freed the slaves in their recognition that slavery violated the Preamble to the Declaration of Independence and th statement that "all men are created equal", although some southern states believed that slavery was essential to their agricultural economy and in those states slavery continued.

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;