<h2 style="text-align: center;">Renewed Imperialism</h2>
European nations were extremely competitive. All nations wanted the best economies. To have a powerhouse economy in this industrial era, nations needed raw materials, means of producing and markets to unload manufactured goods. Through force Europeans could take other nations' raw materials and then sell their goods in the countries. Due to industrialization, Western nations had superior militaries; they were easily able to manipulate foreign nations. To compete for naval dominance, western powers needed more ports and naval bases all around the world. Westerners had the belief that they were a superior race and it was their duty to civilize barbaric people. A poem called the White Man's Burden furthered this belief.

In America, the United States conquered from coast-to-coast. The United States believed it had a divine right to rule all of the North American continent known as manifest destiny. Latin American countries gained their independence. These countries were never conquered but under U.S. influence. The U.S. issued the Monroe Doctrine, which stated any nation that attacked a country in North America would be going to war with the United States. When the U.S. won the Spanish-American war it inherited several colonies.

India was referred to the jewel in the crown of Britain's empire. Britain expelled the French from India. The British East India Company essentially became the government of India. India was extremely profitable. Indians rebelled in the Sepoy Mutiny, causing the British Government to directly control India, instead of the British East India Company.

Southeast Asia was divided. French owned an area called Indochina. The British Controlled the wealthy island of Singapore. It took Australia and made it a prisoner colony. The Spanish had owned the Philippines but lost them to the US in the Spanish-American War.

Japan was the only non-western country to do imperialism right. Japan was awed when the United States forced its ports open. They saw an opportunity to modernize. Japan focussed on science and learning from other nations. They grew powerful, defeated China in the Sino-Japenese War and took Taiwan and Korea as colonies. Japan later defeated Russia in Russo-Japenese war which gave Japan control of Manchuria.

China was abused by just about every industrial power. Hong Kong was taken. It was forced to trade on unfavorable terms. Districts were created where Chinese law didn't affect foreigners. The Qing dynasty collapsed. Chinese citizens got addicted to opium sold to them by europeans and became inefficient. Fed up Chinese staged the Boxer Rebellion. The rebellion failed miserably.

Russia and Britain began to fight over an area in Central Asia. Russia wanted a warm water port and Britain did not want contact with India severed. Britain and Russia engaged in the Tournament of Shadows, a diplomatic conflict relying on espionage and manipulation.

The Ottoman Empire's steady fall led to the Middle East to being occupied by the Britain, France, Italy and Spain. Egypt was heavily fought over because of the incredibly important Suez Canal. Egypt used economic warfare to gain more influence.

Africa was originally exploited for its slaves, ivory and gold. As the Europeans gained more knowledge of the area and had to find more raw resources, they started carving up Africa. European powers agreed to how split up Africa to avoid war at the Berlin Conference.

The Balkans were still under control of the Ottoman Empire. Many of these nations wanted their independence as they had experienced nationalism. Russia, Austria and Italy all wanted to take the Balkans. Serbian nationalism led to tension.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">In Europe</h2>
Countries started taking pride in themselves. Citizens began to have patriotism. Countries began to think they were better than others. This is known as nationalism and it swept through Europe. Imperial ambitions also coincided. The European Nations were all on the brink of war. To protect themselves they formed alliances. Germany, Austria and Italy formed the Triple Alliance. Russia, Britain formed the Triple Entente.