<h2 style="text-align: center;">Exploration</h2>
The Europeans were desperate for Asian spices, silk, porcelain and metals. They could get some from trade through the Silk road, but it was incredibly expensive as it had been through many middle men. Europeans wished to avoid this and trade directly. Europeans finally had the technology needed for exploration. They had the knowledge of the stars from the Arabs. They learned how to make compasses from the Chinese. The astrolabe and sextant also assisted in navigation. Larger ships with better rudders and sails made it possible to travel farther away from the coast.

The Portuguese had a school of sailing founded by Henry the Navigator, that allowed them to get an early start on navigation. They attempted to reach the far east by traveling around Africa.  The Spanish trying to compete with Portugal, also started funding such voyages. The Portuguese started taking parts of Africa as ports to service their ships.  Christopher Columbus believed he could reach Asia by traveling across the Atlantic. The Portuguese refused to find this voyage. The Spanish agreed hoping they food find "(people to worship) God, Gold and Glory." Most of the educated Europeans knew the world was round, but Columbus miscalculated the distance to Asia, believing it to be reachable. Columbus reached America, thinking he had found India. Eventually the mistake was realized. Other Explorers tried to discover more territory. Magellan led a voyage that led a voyage that made it all the way across the world.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Colonization</h2>
The Portuguese settled in parts of Africa and parts of Brazil. The Spanish were able to conquer large parts of both North and South America. European guns, germs and steel allowed for the destruction and near extinction of many societies. Several societies thought that the conquistadors were Quetzalcoatl and afraid to attack them. The Natives died out to fast and were ineffective as slaves; they brought in Africans as slaves to exploit the natural recourses. In the Andes the Spanish exploited the mit'a system to mine silver.

France, England and the Netherlands followed suit. The Dutch founded the Dutch East India company. Stocks were sold so no individual had to cover the cost of the voyages individually. When the Dutch had a war for independence against Spain, they took some of the colonies. The Dutch eventually owned several Caribbean Islands, parts of North America and parts of Indonesia. THe French had minor colonization attempts. They had territory in North America like Louisiana, the Hudson Bay and are around the Great Lakes. They Sailed down the Mississippi River and claimed all surrounding land for France. The English colonization effort came largely from groups trying to avoid religious persecution. The English fought a naval war with Spain and gained sailing experience from this. The English formed two Companies; the Hudson Bay Company and the British East India Company. The English took the port of Malacca from the Dutch. The English were interested in making their colonies permanent settlements which other nations would not.