<h2 style="text-align: center;">Reformation</h2>
Catholicism had dominated almost all of Europe for many years. The Catholic church grew corrupt. Many were angry about the church's entanglement to political affairs, indulgences and the purchasing of church positions. Due to the printing press, ideas of discontent could be quickly spread. Martin Luther was the first to publicly denounce the sale of indulgences in a document known as the Ninety-Five Theses. His failure to take back the criticism led to his excommunication. Luther founded his own church.

John Calvin believed in predestination, that people were destined to either go to heaven or hell before they were born. Calvinism took hold in Geneva and a theocracy was established.

Henry the VIII wanted to divorce his wife as she would not bear him a son. The Pope would not grant this, so Henry founded the Anglican Church to allow himself a divorce. It was similar to the Catholic Church.

All the branches had different views. Protestants often put less emphasis on rituals, allowed priests to marry, believed in salvation through faith alone or predestination, and didn't sell indulgences.

The Catholic Church noticed the decline in membership and changed to regain its influence. The church gave birth to the Baroque movement of art to impress its subjects. The pope gained more authority. The church forbid books questioning it. The Jesuit order started teaching to combat Protestantism. Fights broke out to attempt to suppress new religions. France had several civil wars. The Thirty-Years' War led to the years of fighting, but led to some tolerance of the new faiths.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Absolutism</h2>
Monarchs claimed to have a god given right to rule, known as Divine Right which was similar to the Mandate of Heaven. These monarchs had unlimited power. Louis the XIV was the epitome of absolutism. He made France extremely organized. He built an elaborate palace known as Versailles, to show his wealth. He went back on his grandfather's promise to allow religious freedom. Absolutism remained until the French Revolutions.

The Holy Roman Empire became an Absolute Monarchy under the rule of the Hapsburg Family. THey stated they needed power to defend against the bordering turks.

Prussia became a belligerent sate under the absolute rule of of Frederick the Great. The citizens didn't have as much freedoms as other European states.

Peter the Great modernized Russia under his absolute rule. He put extreme emphasis on Westernization. He would even cut long beards off of his officials as they did not look western. Serfdom still continued in Russia.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Parliamentary Monarchies</h2>
The Parliament in England continued to seize more power in England. The King tried to centralize authority in the English Civil war. Parliament won and established a Commonwealth. The Monarchy was restored in the Restoration of 1660. Conflict over power ensued and the king was replaced with William of Orange in the Glorious Revolution. A Bill of Rights was signed.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Age of Enlightenment</h2>
The Northern Countries in Europe had their own renaissance of sorts. Baroque art became common as the church was financing it. Literature was blossoming as William Shakespeare started writing many plays. The printing press made the Bible available to everyday people. More people became literate and could voice ideas to many.

Scientific discovery was quite common. It was proven through math that the sun was the center of the solar system, although the Church taught against this. Galileo popularized the Heliocentric theory, but was forced to reject this theory in public by the church. The mathematical proof of planetary motion showed that the universe followed natural laws. Newton created the laws of motion and calculus. Newtonian physics was developed.

Philosophers changed common thought. John Locke believed that all people were entitled to "Life, Liberty and Property." Voltaire opposed all organized religion. The philosophers believed in rationally organized governments. These philosophers planted the seeds for revolutions.

The agricultural revolution took place. New plows allowed for fields to be more effectively harvested. Field were now rotated and there was no need for one to lay fallow. As agriculture was more efficient there was the ability to have people move into cities. A middle class of craftsmen, merchants, bankers, doctors and lawyers was formed.

The cities allowed for more manufacturing to occur. People would work together to produce products. This served as a pre-industrial revolution. Work was given to people to get back on a certain day, this was known as the putting-out system. The Mercantile system was common. Colonies only existed to economically support the mother country. Adam Smith advocated capitalism in his book The Wealth of Nations.

Women still were not treated as equals; however, they gained divorce rights and could inherit property.

&nbsp;