<h2 style="text-align: center;">China</h2>
The Sui dynasty united China and Expanded its borders; however the Tang Dynasty quickly replaced it. The Tang forced neighboring countries to pay tribute. The Tang benefited from contributions of previous societies. The Sui dynasty's grand canal greatly aid the Tang in trade matters as it linked two major waterways: The Yellow and Yangzi rivers. The Silk industry greatly helped the economy. The Chinese benefited from both the Silk Road and Indian Ocean Trade Network. Rebellions eventually led to the fall of the Tang.

The Sung eventually reunited China. The Sung faced strong rival civilizations. They payed tribute to the Liao Empire, until they destroyed it. The Jin Empire eventually became a rival and took a lot of their land. China started trading more through the Indian Ocean. Ports became more important. Urbanization took place. The Sung invented the compass, gunpowder, paper money and block printing. An intense bureaucracy was developed. Tests were used to assign government positions, making China a meritocracy. The Neo-Confucianism thought stressed obedience. Buddhism worked well with Neo-Confucianism. Women had property rights but were subject to a horrifying, mutilating process known as foot binding. To look more attractive woman would keep their feet from growing; it hurt and crippled them.

The Mongols came in and capture most of the Sung dynasty. Kublai Khan conquered the rest of China and made the Yuan Dynasty. Kublai adopted Buddhism and the Chinese language. China again was able to demand tribute from bordering nations. The mongols created new infrastructure and cities. The plague killed many and led to economic downturn. Civil wars ended the dynasty.

The Ming Dynasty rose after the Yuan. China was once again centralized. China once again was able to demand tribute from its neighbors. The Ming dynasty was strong enough to resist attacks from the Mongols led by Timur. Chinese trade greatly expanded due to better, bigger boats. Long voyages reaching as far as East Africa were led by Zheng He. As a result of the voyages, over fifty states became tributary states. Due to attack from northern nomads the Ming lost interest in naval affairs. This loss of interest would allow European powers to lead colonization. Emperor Yongle made the Forbidden City, a lavish palace, in Beijing. THe ming Dynasty was the first to make porcelain, paper and the novel.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Japan</h2>
The Heian period refers to when Japans imperial family ruled from Heian. THe family was said to be descended from gods. However, the emperor although sacred held minimal power. The chancellor secretly ruled in his name. Japan had two prominent religions Buddhism and Shintoism. Confucian thought and Daoism also played a big roll. China's hegemony led to similar writing, poetry, pottery and art. The government allowed the military to be run by warrior clans. These clans eventually went to war. The Minamoto Clan gained power. The emperor was left as a figure head, but a shogun held the power. The Shogun system became much like European Fuedalism. Local lords known as daimyo held land. This class became warriors known as Samurai. The followed a code of ethics called Bushido. The Japanese were able to resist the Mongols, due to a storm destroying ships. This was called holy wind or "kamikaze."