<h2 style="text-align: center;">Ming</h2>
The dynasty persisted for more than a century. It remained economically prosperous as China always had due to silk and porcelain. Europeans started reaching China through their voyages. As China was far to organized and powerful to dominate, Europeans established peaceful trading houses there. Christianity was introduced to China because of these Europeans although it never would become an official state religion. Due to inflation, famines, the high cost of defending the landmass, and revolution led to the fall of the Ming.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Qing</h2>
The Manchus came into China from Manchuria. There was clear ethnic distinction as Manchus force Chinese to dress the same. The Chinese came into contact with Russia and there were several border disputes. The Qing had many tributary states. The Qing forced all trade to come through the city Canton. They made sure that exports greatly exceeded imports. The Qing rejected western culture. Christianity was banned. The Qing believed in Confucian ideals. Eventually the Qing would fall behind in technology and be open to European manipulation.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Japan</h2>
Feudalism in Japan eventually led to almost distinct states led by the respective daimyo. A weak Shogunate allowed for the Era of Independent Lords. The Daimyo all fought and ones who lost their territory became mercenaries. Several leaders came close to unifying Japan; Tokugawa eventually appointed himself Shogun.

An emperor  was still left as a figurehead. Japan got rid of social mobility. Confucian ideas were highly esteemed. Only samurai were allowed to own weapons. The government held all gunpowder weapons and kept their presence extremely limited.

Most women had to obey their husbands completely or be put to death. On rare occasion, talented women's became geishas, which was a special status held for people with musical or artistic talents.

The Japanese like the Qing were afraid of foreign influence. Christians were persecuted. The Japanese only allowed foreign trade in Nagasaki. Japan became increasingly isolationist, to the point where no outside trade occurred.

Japan's rice output doubled. A merchant class became more wealthy. Due to the peace, the samurai class had no purpose. They had trouble adapting and many turned to crime.