<h2 style="text-align: center;">Decay of the Ottoman Empire</h2>
The Ottoman Empire new that is was not innovating at the rate of other countries. Some sultans would try to reform, but many powerful groups were opposed to any change. One of these groups were the janissary warriors. They refused to learn new tactics or incorporate new technology. They had enough influence to prevent any change from occurring. The janissaries even assassinated a sultan who was trying to reform the empire. Some modernization took place: scientific knowledge was encouraged, religion played less of a role in government and a European style military was formed.

The Tanzimat Reforms brought about more change. Women were given opportunities to be educated, the empire began to practice religious tolerance, schools began teaching western science. A telegraph service and postal service were established.

The empire deteriorated further due to rebellions and the power of other European nations. The Greek waged a war of independence. Because of their Christian faith the other nations of Europe came to their aid. The Ottomans lost and gave up Greece. Muhammed Ali led rebellions in north Africa. Ali Modernized Egypt by giving it a military and encouraged the growing of cotton.

The Young Turks led a coup. They seized control and put a representative government in control. They allied themselves with the Germans. The Italians began seizing Ottoman territory.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">European Balance of Power</h2>
European nations did not want to see any nation gain more power due to the fall of the Ottoman Empire. The nations wanted its collapse to be slow and not allow for any new formidable enemy to take its place. European nations aided the Ottoman Empire against Muhammad Ali. Britain and France aided the Ottoman Empire against the Russians in the Crimean War. Balkan states revolted and almost destroyed the empire. At the Congress of Berlin the states were granted independence.

England and France disputed over the Suez Canal. Britain had most of the shares in the company that owned the canal. Eventually Britain militarily intervened to keep control. A rebellion was led to take the territory back and the British easily overcame it.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Persia and Central Asia</h2>
Britain extended influence over Persia after finding it had oil reserves. Russia took parts of Persia. It was divided into spheres of influence. Central Asia was mostly taken by Russia in trying to get a warm water port.

&nbsp;