<h2 style="text-align: center;">Spirit Worship</h2>
The earliest forms of worship tended to be asking and thanking spirits. Shamans aided the worship by healing of the sick, fortune telling, predicting weather trends, assisting in prayer or keeping taboo items out of the society. Spirit worship was still practiced in some advanced societies like Shintoism in Japan. Many spirit worshipping cultures believed in honoring their ancestors spirit. Proper burial was important in honoring ancestors. Syncretism, the blending of new and old religions, tended to leave imprints in modern Religions like Christianity and Hinduism.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Judaism</h2>
Judaism was the first monotheistic religion. The Hebrew people believed they were descended from a man, Abraham, who made a covenant or promise with God. The Jewish people were conquered by many different early empires. Hebrews were torn from their land and their temples were torn down. The Jews were one of the few groups to keep their cultural identity after having been conquered. Rather than being assumed by the empire's culture they rejected paganism. After being oppressed for so long Jews came to hope for a savior for that would one day free them. This idea was somewhat ironic

Rabbis acted as leaders of the religious community. Judaism was the first religion to have a set scripture in the Torah. This religion had set rules in the Ten Commandments, which is thought to have been influenced by the Code of Hammurabi. Dietary restrictions were in place. Like most early religions, Judaism led to a patriarchal societies.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">The Transition into Hinduism</h2>
The religion dominating South Asia up until 700 BCE was Vedism, which required people to follow brahmins' (priests') orders unquestioningly and receive sacraments that only brahmins could perform. The spread of written language led to a belief that the people themselves had a say over their religious experience. Vedism was not ever rejected but gradually change into a larger belief system, Hinduism.

Hinduism has three main gods: Brahma (the world), Vishnu (the preserver) and Shiva (the destroyer). Due to syncretism, Hinduism came to include many gods and goddesses. Local villages would only accept Hinduism if their deity was accepted into Hinduism.

There is a belief in reincarnation. By observing all rules one would be born into a higher status life and eventually escape the cycle of reincarnation. The idea of Karma (one would be rewarded for doing good in life and punished for doing bad in the next life) was derived from Vedism. The concept of Karma led to a strict Caste system, including a class that were forced to complete tasks that made them unclean.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Buddhism</h2>
Siddhartha Gautama was a nobleman opposed by the suffering of common people. He preached his ideas anyone could escape the world and achieve Nirvana. Buddhists also believe in reincarnation and karma like Hindus. There was no need for priests of rituals. Anyone could achieve salvation by recognizing the Four Noble Truths and following the Noble Eightfold Path.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Confucianism</h2>
Confucius emphasized ethical conduct of all people. He believed the best society would only be possible with benevolent leadership from above and rule abiding from below. There must be a hierarchy and that the needs of the group come before an individual. Confucius believed humans would be good if they were treated well.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Christianity</h2>
Christians believe essentially everything taught by Judaism, except that God's son came to earth to allow his people to achieve salvation. God's Son Jesus was crucified despite teaching peace and being moral. He was believed to have rose from the dead three days later, leaving behind the holy spirit to help Christians. His followers started the Church and wrote the Bible. Christianity become common in the Roman Empire. It was legalized by Constantine and eventually became the official religion of the Roman Empire. The Bible was eventually translated into Latin.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Islam</h2>
Mohammed, an epileptic, saw an archangel tell him the word of god. He and his family began to preach this but soon found themselves kicked out of Mecca. Mohammed and his followers returned, conquered and converted Mecca. Islam is an Abrahamic religion. Muslims have to observe the Five Pillars: to pray facing Mecca once a day, to fast during Ramadan, to travel to Mecca once, to aid the poor and to declare there is no god aside from Allah. The holy book is the Qur'an and the holy language is Arabic.