<h2 style="text-align: center;">American Revolution</h2>
The British Colonies in North America united against the British. The American colonies developed feelings of patriotism, became fed up with high British taxes and struggled to accept their lack of control over their own laws. The Enlightenment inspired Americans. A Declaration of Independence was written. America started winning battles against a highly trained army due to knowing the land better and British forces being too far away from supplies. After winning several battles, the French helped the Colonies to weaken Britain. The British decided the war was too costly and surrendered. The Americans disputed about how they should be governed. After much debate the Constitution was signed. A democratic-republic was created. The Constitution inspired many revolutions over the coming years.

The United States stated they would not allow any country to take a colony in North America when they had power. It expanded from coast to coast. It took some land but bought most of it from France in the Louisiana Purchase. The Cotton Economy of the south kept the Atlantic Slave Trade running. A civil war was fought to get rid of slavery in the south. The United States was one of the few countries open to immigrants. The United States industrialized extremely fast. It overtook European nations. US innovation spread overseas.

&nbsp;
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Canada</h2>
Canada was still loyal to Britain. Some small revolts took place. The British did not want to deal with another revolutionary war so the gave Canada its own constitution and parliament. Britain still controlled foreign affairs.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Haiti</h2>
Haiti was inspired by the successful American and French Revolutions. French Haiti was confused during the French Revolution. As the French poor gained better conditions the slaves thought they too were entitled to freedom. The French did not want this for Haiti. The French fought the Rebels, but lost due to yellow fever. Frustrated the French sold the Louisiana purchase to the US. Haiti suffered due to it having no friendly countries. The US didn't want to associate because the southern states feared it would inspire their slaves to rebel.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Latin America</h2>
Simon Bolivar was educated in enlightenment ideals. Bolivar Swept across Venezuela, Bolivia Ecuador and Colombia. Imperial powers were cleared out of South America. The Reagent of Brazil made it a constitutional monarchy with him in charge.

Mexico wanted its independence. However, it had competing classes. It quickly escalated into a three way war between the lower class, the upper class and Spain. A dictatorship was established but quickly removed from power. A republic was put in place.

Bolivar wanted to unite the nations into one union like the US. This was never achieved. Dictators quickly took control of the continent. Representative government disappeared.

The economy of these nations was greatly slowed by only having one main good. Only a select few profited. Many were extremely poor. Other countries mainly the United States exerted dominance through investing. The United States built the Panama Canal to profit.

Mexico had another revolution led by Pancho Villa. Many were killed. A populist government was almost put in place. Mexico ended up being a mild dictatorship.