<h2 style="text-align: center;">Europe's Recovery from World War 2</h2>
As a result of the war millions died, even more were homeless, many had no country, there was wide-spread famine and colonies were demanding independence. Eastern Europe turned to the USSR for recovery. Stalin set up communistic economies throughout these countries. Industrialization was brought to this region by collectivizing agriculture and centrally planning economies. Countries provided state education, universal health care and pensions to the elderly. This region suffered still because its industrial capability was almost entirely used to build arms for the USSR.

Western Europe flourished as a result of its reconstruction. The US infused billions of dollars into repairing Europe through the Marshall Plan. These countries used the money to buy US food and consumer goods. Technology kept improving allowing for some countries, especially West Germany, to become economic powerhouses. Many of these nations adopted some socialistic practices like welfare. Corruption often existed in these governments. The public hated this as shown by the protests of 1968.

In addition to NATO, the western European countries unified in the European Union. International tariffs were done away with and it became easier to move within said countries. Eventually they would adopt a single currency.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Independence of the Developing World</h2>
<h3>Middle-East</h3>
Israel was established as Britain had promised years ago, because of international sympathy for the Jews. The United States immediately recognized the new nation. Local Muslims were enraged that the Holy Land was given to Jews. Arab states frequently declared war against Israel. The Israeli army easily defeated the Arab States. Israel was eventually recognized by Egypt in exchange for the Sinai Peninsula.

Egypt became highly Arab and a military dictator took over. General Nasser set his sights on unifying the Arab countries and modernizing. Egypt declared its ownership of the Suez Canal. This upset Britain and France, but the US and USSR agreed to let Egypt have the canal. The Aswan Damn provided energy for Egypt and crude oil was exported. The Arab Union did not ever reach fruition. General Nasser was siding with the USSR; however when the Soviets tried to influence politics they were expelled. His successor established a healthy relationship with the US.

Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi sold Iran's oil using the money to industrialize Iran. He encouraged westernization and supported the US. Many saw him as a puppet of the US and were upset about his means of change. Muslim Fundamentalists took over Iran in the Iranian Revolution after Pahlavi left the country. They were Anti-American and waged war against Iran.

The United States supported Iraq to prevent the spread of anti-American sentiment by Iran.  Hussein quickly became a powerful dictator and was brutal to his people. When Iraq invaded Kuwait, the US led a NATO coalition in the Gulf War. Eventually the US deposed Hussein in fear he was developing Nuclear Weapons.
<h3>Africa</h3>
Libya declared its independence. Tunisia and Morocco gained their freedom as post-war france couldn't handle ruling them. Algeria finally gained its independence from France through war. Sub-Saharan Africa gradually freed itself through nonviolent movements.

South Africa had an interesting transition as the Dutch Boers were still in South Africa when the British declared it an independent state. A policy of segregation called Apartheid was put into place. The government was all white. Through exploiting the supply of diamonds South Africa become industrialized and wealthy. Eventually free elections led to an African, Nelson Mandala, becoming president and ending Apartheid.
<h3>Asia</h3>
The US willing gave independence to the Philippines hoping other western powers would follow its example. Britain Freely gave India its independence. Muslims and Hindus began fighting over power. Two separate states were created Hindu India and Muslim Pakistan. These two nations have a long seated conflict.

The French did not want to grant independence to Indochina. Communist Ho Chi Minh declared independence, but fearing the Spread of Communism the US backed France in a war. North Vietnam Became Communist and south Vietnam was a Western Supporting dictatorship. The US was losing to many lives and the cost of war was too high. The US withdrew leaving a communist Vietnam.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Japan</h2>
The United States rebuilt Japan like Western Europe. Japan became a republic. Japan industrialized and had a great economy. The US held a military presence as a deterrent to Communism.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Communist China</h2>
Mao Zedong tried to modernize China as Stalin had Russia. He created 5-year plans much like Stalin's. Agriculture Collectivization began slowly. Mao desperate to keep up with the superpowers initiated a Program called the Great Leap Forward. He set impossible goals and punishments for those who got in the way. To appear productive communal farms would fake the amounts of food they had collected. This caused famines that swept the nation.

Mao feared his political opponents and encouraged young communists to constantly challenge leadership, effectively keeping China in a permanent state of revolt preventing leaders other than Mao from gaining power. Deng took over when Mao died. Deng in an attempt to modernize allowed for some free market reform and gave some collectivized land back. This led to extreme economic growth.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Economic and Scientific Advancement</h2>
Corporations looking to maximize profits gained worldwide influence. They began building factories in countries around the world. This led to Globalization. Countries began to trade more freely. This led to less tension between countries, but any economic crisis will quickly effect the whole world. Corporations seeking profits will build their factories wherever there is the cheapest labor and lowest taxes.

Einstein developed the Theory of Relativity. Quantum physics and understanding of the atom came into existence. Rockets were built and understanding of space occurred. Genetics were studied and the structure of DNA was discovered. Computers were built. The internet allowed for greater connectivity between nations.