<h2 style="text-align: center;">The Cause</h2>
Rival ambitions in creating empires created tension between European nations. Fights would frequently break out. Countries allied together in attempt to avoid conflict as countries would not want to fight two. Italy, Germany and Austria-Hungary Allied together. Britain, France and Russia allied together. Countries also had nationalism and believed they were the best. This led to further competition. Nations built up militaries to deter war although it had the exact opposite impact.

Nations in the Balkans kept trying to achieve independence. Austria-Hungary would not allow this. In Bosnia, the nephew of the Archduke of Austria was assassinated. Austria said the only way they would not invade was if they submitted to ridiculous demands. Bosnia begged Russia for help. Russia felt compared as they shared common slavic culture. Russia declared war on Austria-Hungary. In turn that Led to Germany Declaring war on Russia, France and Britain. Italy realigned itself with Russia, France and Britain.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Shaping of the War</h2>
Germany dreaded the idea of fighting a two front war. To avoid this they created the Schlieffen Plan. They would focus almost all their force on France immediately, hoping to take all of France within 6 weeks. To avoid the militarized French border the German Army went through the neutral Belgium. Belgium had some resistance and the Germans were unable to take France after suffering defeat at the Marne River.

The Germans were then stuck fighting a two-front war. The Germans also gave the allied nations propaganda, as it had attacked a neutral nation. A stalemate quickly broke out on the western front as the defensive machine gun made it difficult to take ground. Trenches were dug to provide cover for soldiers. Virtually no territory changed hands for several years due to the trench warfare. Life in the trenches was scarring for soldiers. On the Eastern front Russia lost tons of land and many lives. By 1917, Russia was essentially defeated.

Great Britain had an extremely powerful navy. It had many warships. It imposed a blockade upon Germany and its allies. Germany resorted to its submarines. Germany had no idea which ships were bringing weapons to the Allies, so it began a policy of unrestricted submarine warfare. Germany accidentally sunk a US passenger ship, the Lusitania. This gave the United States motivation to join the Allies.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Global Developments</h2>
Due to colonies around the world the war spread much further than Europe. France and Britain had troops stationed in Africa attempt to seize German colonies. The French brought Africans to fight in Europe. Canada, Australia, New Zealand and South Africa joined the Allies on behalf of Britain. Japan joined the allies and took German possessions in the pacific. In the Middle East, Australian and New Zealander troops tried to destroy the Ottoman empire in Gallipoli although it was mostly unsuccessful. Arab Princes were convinced to rise up against the Ottoman Empire and Essentially destroyed it.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Total War</h2>
To get the best army a nation could have nations had to get the civilian populations to contribute to the war effort. Nations had to ration food and metals. Drafts were put in place to increase military size. Civil liberties were put on hold; publications were censored to keep anti-war sentiment. Women took up jobs in factories, achieving more pay.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">End of the War</h2>
Due to the Russian Revolution, Russia surrendered seeding much of its land to Germany. Germany appeared as it would win the war as Britain was becoming resource deprived. The United States then joined the war. The Germans launched an offensive against Paris, reaching the Marne again. They were stopped by a multinational force. They went into retreat. The Axis Powers surrendered.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Treaty</h2>
The nations declared peace at the Paris Peace Conference. President Woodrow wilson had a list of fourteen points to ensure future peace. He campaigned for end of secret treaties, arms reduction, the end of imperialism, demilitarization, self-determination of all nations and the freedom of the seas. His biggest stress was a League of Nations, an organization to peacefully resolve conflict. The leaders of France and Britain simply wanted to punish Germany and they did by putting heavy reparations on Germany. Austria-Hungary was split into Austria and Hungary. Other territory became independent states. Italy received some of the territory it was promised, but not all which frustrated many. Britain and France were placed in charge of the middle east and were supposed to be preparing them for independence. A state for the Jewish was not created to avoid tension with the Muslim Population.

Germany had to assume all blame for the war. Germany lost territory, such as Alsace and Lorraine. Germany was to remain demilitarized. German colonies were placed under allied ownership.