<h2 style="text-align: center;">The End of World War 2</h2>
The goal after the war was over was to establish a lasting peace. Churchill, Roosevelt and Stalin met at the Teheran, Yalta and Potsdam Conference. It was decided that a new international peace keeping organization would be made to replace the failed League of Nations. The United Nations was created which had some military and economic power.

The fate of Europe was heavily debated over. Stalin wanted most of Europe to become communist and essentially controlled by the USSR. Churchill and Roosevelt both wanted nations to be able to decide their government for themselves (believing the would choose democracy). Germany was divided into 4 sectors, one given to Britain, France, The Soviet Union and the US. Berlin was split into a Western and Eastern half. Nazi's were removed from office and put on trial. The big three agreed to allow Eastern Europe to have free elections, but Stalin went back on his promise.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Iron Curtain</h2>
Pro-Soviet governments were placed in essentially all areas that the Soviet army had been in during World War 2. Yugoslavia became communist, but it's leader Tito separated it from the Soviet Union upon Stalin's death. The USSR started putting pressure on Greece, Iran and Turkey.

The United States started to believe in the Domino Theory: if one nation fell to communism surrounding nations would too. They opted for a policy of containment, keeping communism in the regions it was currently in and nothing more. The Truman Doctrine was issued stating the US would provide aid to Europe. Later, the Marshall Plan was put in place. 13 Billion dollars of aid were given to European nations for rebuilding. Stalin forbid Eastern Europe from receiving aid.

Democratic nations formed NATO, saying if one was attacked they would all go to war. In response the USSR and its satellites created the Warsaw Pact. Churchill claimed an Iron Curtain rose up in Europe separating Communistic and Democratic countries.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">The War Outside of Europe</h2>
The Nationalists in China were defeated by Mao Zedong. The People's Republic of China was established as a communist nation. China allied with the Soviet Union.

With aid from China and the Soviet Union, North Korea invaded South Korea. The United States and United Nations defended South Korea. Years later the war stopped with no gain for either side.

The Soviet Union started targeting undeveloped nations across the world. Many of these nations wanted to align with the USSR because they had been upset with western imperialism. The US frequently sponsored dictators as they were anticommunist.

The Cuban Revolution put a Communist nation in the Western Hemisphere. The Vietnam War ended with all of Vietnam Communist and US defeat.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Aggression and Arms Race</h2>
When Stalin passed Khrushchev  took control of the Soviet Union. Khrushchev had better relations with the US. Hungary tried to leave the USSR and the red army was ordered to suppress the revolt. A US U-2 plane was shot down. The Berlin wall was erected. The USSR tried set up nuclear missiles in Cuba. The US set up a naval blockade of Cuba. Tensions eventually cooled.

Brezhnev forced Khrushchev out of power. He became much more authoritarian. He issued the Brezhnev Doctrine saying the Soviet Union had a right to protect communism in eastern Europe. He used the military to stop reform in Czechoslovakia.

Tension between the Soviet Union and China increased. Russia not sharing Nuclear Secrets upset China. The border between China and the USSR became militarized.

When Russia figured out how to make nuclear weapons, both countries stockpiled weapons. Both developed hydrogen bombs. Both nations had capability of  delivering the bombs in several ways. Both were terrified of starting a nuclear war. As a result no major conflict broke out.

The Space Race was used to show both nations scientific capabilities. Russia reached space first with its Sputnik satellite. This showed it had rockets capable of hitting the US. The United States beat Russian by landing on the moon.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Road to the End of the War</h2>
The US did not want any more military involvement as it had lost Vietnam. The USSR needed grain to feed its people and wasn't ready to instigate. Nixon visited China and opened trade to increase tension between Russia and China. Russia bought grain from the US. To avoid mutual destruction treaties limiting Nuclear Arsenals were signed.

Afghanistan was occupied by the Soviet Union to get access to oil reserves. Hostility ensued from both nations. The revolution in Nicaragua pitted the nations against each-other. Reagan called Russia the Evil Empire. The nations supported opposite sides in third world conflicts. Espionage reached all time highs. The Olympic games were boycotted by both nations.

The Soviet Union was breaking because of economic tension. The guns over butter approach meant many starved to build up a military. Many spoke out against the USSR. When Gorbachev took over he realized reform was needed. He allowed for some private property and free enterprise. He allowed for other political parties and a parliament. People began to ask for more change.

Eastern Europe was allowed to go free. The Berlin Wall was taken down by students.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Breakup of the Soviet Union</h2>
Liberal leaders wanted much more change and traditional communists very upset about the changes Gorbachev made. The Eastern European freedom encouraged anti-Soviet thought in the USSR itself. Hard-line communists staged a revolt. Common people prevented this. The Union broke up and Gorbachev resigned.
<h2 style="text-align: center;"></h2>