<h2 style="text-align: center;">The Ottoman Empire</h2>
A sultan provided the Ottoman Turks with central authority. There was an extensive bureaucracy. The position of Sultan has passed down hereditarily, but not always to the eldest son, due to the practice of many wives. The Ottoman empire wiped out the Byzantine Empire and took most of its territory including Constantinople which was renamed Istanbul. The Ottomans had a military advantage because they used rifles and cannons. For this reason they were called the gunpowder empire. The military also had the benefit janissary leadership. Janisarries were boys the sultan personally adopted; they received special military training and had lives of privilege. North Africa was also taken. Suliman the Magnificent led battles against the Holy Roman Empire and Romania. The Ottomans had dominance of the Mediterranean until the 1500's.

The empire was surprisingly tolerant of other religions. Non-Islamic people had to play a special tax, but would not were not forced to convert. There was a system called devshirme where young Christian boys would be adopted by the Sultan, forced to convert and serve in the palace, as a scribe, as a religious servant or as a janissary.

Women had property rights, but were not to be seen in public. The harem was a collection of wives for the sultan; these women would learn the Qur'an and receive other education. These women would be able to have some influence over the Sultan or their children who could potentially inherit the throne.

The Ottoman empire started declining after the lost a battle at Vienna due to a multinational counter offensive. The empire lost more and more territory until the first world war.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Safavid Empire</h2>
Persians eventually reclaimed their land from the Mongols. Shiite muslims started Safavid Empire. They became involved with the Silk Road trade, contributing silk, tile and rugs. They held some military dominance due to the use of gunpowder.