<h2 style="text-align: center;">The Soviet Union</h2>
Russia was in a state of chaos with the defeat in World War 1. There was also economic crisis and much of Russia's land was gone. To prevent Russia from reentering the war Germany sent back the previously exiled Vladimir Lenin. Lenin overthrew the provisional government. Lenin attempted to follow Marxist ideas, but Marxism more applied to industrialized societies.

When Lenin died, Joseph Stalin took control. He needed to modernize the Soviet union. He set ridiculous goals for where Russian production should be in five-years. He collectivized farms, forcing the peasants to work in factories. Famine Swept the Nation. Great Purges took place to clear Stalin's enemies out. Many were sent to work camps in Siberia. Propaganda was heavily used to keep the people controlled.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Crisis in Italy</h2>
Italy was plagued by an economic depression. The wealthy began to fear revolution from the right as had happened in Russia. To prevent revolution the middle-class and high-class started supporting the Fascist party run by Benito Mussolini. The party opposed all left change. Democracy was done away with as was capitalism. The state owned everything. It was extremely nationalistic to the point of racist. Mussolini led as a totalitarian leader, meaning an extreme dictatorship where the leader controls every aspect of subjects lives using government organizations and propaganda. Italy became somewhat more modern under the fascist rule.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">The Nazi Movement</h2>
Germany's Weimar Republic was plagued with economic trouble due to reparation payments and hyperinflation. A communist party and a fascist Nazi party were created. The Nazi's led by Adolph Hitler staged a revolution. The revolution was successfully put down. Hitler was imprisoned and wrote his plan and ideas in a book called Mein Kampf. He was released. When elections came, he legally became chancellor. He secretly had the Reichstag building burned. The act of terrorism was blamed on communists, which allowed Hitler to get emergency powers and remove all other parties. Hitler sent political enemies to concentration camps. Anti-semitism became common. The Nuremberg laws stripped Jews of most of their rights. A secret police was put in place to control the population through fear. Hitler delivered on his promises to fix the economy by militarizing the country. He built the Autobahn to transport tanks.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Asia</h2>
<h3>Japan</h3>
Japan attempted to westernized by further encouraging democracy, capitalism and industrialization. Corporations called zaibatsu controlled the government. Japan decided it was time to expel western influence from Asia. Japan took Manchuria. Japan eventually attacked China, starting with the Rape of Nanjing. Civilian populations were decimated be soldiers. Japan became known as the Empire of the Rising Sun
<h3>China</h3>
China's Nationalist Party was essentially removed by military dictators. The Nationalist party staged an unsuccessful revolt. China slipped into anarchy as military dictators did not know how to successfully run such a large state. Most of the territory came under the control of mobs and warlords. The communist party and nationalist parties established a presence in China. People were demanding better education and more freedom as shown by the Tiananmen Square demonstrations.

The Communists and Nationalists joined together to depose the dictators. The Nationalist leader Chiang Kai-shek betrayed the Communists led by Mao Zedong. This started a civil war.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Middle East</h2>
Turkey was formed out of the remains of the Ottoman Empire. The turks lost almost all foreign territory. The young turks were eager for reform. A new leader Ataturk emerged and negotiated a peace with the Allies. He established a republic. He started to modernize Turkey. He separated religion from government and education. A European law code was adopted.

Persia also became an independent state. They expelled British and Russian influence. It was renamed Iran. Western influence was followed Church was separated from state. Other Middle-eastern nations were upset Britain did not free them after assisting the Allies. Tension was driven higher as there was talk of Creating a jewish homeland in the middle-east. Ibn Saud helped Saudi Arabia drive others out. It became powerful when large oil reserves were found.