<h2 style="text-align: center;">Causes of the War</h2>
Hitler's agression, nationalism, tension over the unfair Treaty of Versailles, alliances all led to the second world war. Hitler withdrew from the league of nation and started rebuilding the military. The Soviet Union and France feared German aggression  and agreed to protect Poland and Czechoslovakia.

Italy invaded Ethiopia, yet the League of Nations did nothing. Hitler took the Rhineland and nothing was done. Spain fell under the control of Fascists. Stalin tried to help the legitimate Spanish Government and became infuriated that France and Britain did not do the same.

Japan aligned with Italy and Germany. Japan invaded China ruthlessly. Germany united with Austria, again violating the Treaty of Versailles. Hitler wanted to take the Sudetenland. Britain and France met with Hitler. They agreed to let Germany have the land in return for Hitler promising he wouldn't take any more territory. The Soviet Union became angry that it was left out of this decision. Germany then took the rest of Czechoslovakia, then Lithuania. Italy took Albania. Japan started fighting the Soviet Union on the borders. Stalin gave Hitler Poland and a non-aggression pact was formed.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">New Warfare</h2>
Airplanes and tanks changed the nature of war. No longer was defense superior. New artillery and bombers also made offensive strikes easier. As countries were more industrialized more arms were made. Radar and Sonar also change warfare.

Germany realizing the advantage of new technology and dreading a two front war again decided to go on the offensive. The German Blitzkrieg allowed for Poland to be taken in weeks. Germany then moved to France. France had prepared it's border with the Maginot line. Germany went through Belgium and avoided it altogether. France and the rest of Western Europe surrendered early.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Britain's Defense</h2>
Germany was essentially only left with one immediate enemy. They focused all their military might on Britain. The Royal Navy blocked German attempts of an amphibious landing. Hitler sent waves of bombers to destroy Britain. Britain held out, due to radar and that citizens could hide in the subway beneath hundreds of feet of limestone. The United States gave aid to Britain, through the Lend-lease program. Hitler Became frustrated and temporarily gave up.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">The Eastern Front</h2>
Hitler had to invade Greece and Yugoslavia as Mussolini had failed. Germany launched Operation Barbarossa, the invasion of the Soviet Union. Germany almost made it to Moscow but got stopped by a last ditch effort (which was celebrated with intense vodka drinking from the Ruskies).
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Japan</h2>
Japan started attacking Western Colonial possessions. Japan took most of the Chinese coast and Indochina. The US stopped trading with Japan, which stunted its war effort. Japan bombed the US pearl harbor, bringing the US into the war.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Allied Strength</h2>
Due to America and Russia's combined economies the longer the war lasted the more likely an allied victory became. Germany and Japan would have to severely cripple there remaining enemies to keep an advantage. Japan waged a large naval battle at Midway. The US won, destroying much of Japan's fleet, crippling the Axis powers. The British dealt a setback to Germany when tanks were stopped before they reached the Suez Canal. Russia was able to turn back the German advance at Stalingrad.

German submarine fleets became less of a threat as sonar allowed for easy detection. British and American bombers could destroy much of Europe with minimal loss of troops. Britain and America used the North African territory they had taken to stage an invasion on mainland Europe. They knocked Italy out of the war and deposed Mussolini. An invasion of western Europe was planned. This invasion was known as D-day. Germany was now fighting a three front war. Hitler eventually committed suicide and Germany Surrendered.

Japan had no way to win, but engrained in the culture was to not give up. Japan began tactics like Kamikaze pilots who would crash planes to destroy naval craft. To avoid loss of American lives, the United States deployed two nuclear bombs. Japan finally surrendered.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Crimes Against Humanity</h2>
Japanese soldiers had raped thousands of women and butchered civilians in their conquest of Asia. Japan had killed many prisoners of war. People were used for biological and chemical war subjects.

Nazi war crimes were far worse. They used secret police and concentration camps to keep civilians obeying. They Euthanized those with disabilities or injuries.

The Nazi's considered certain people to be undesirable. It was decided that certain groups were ethnically unacceptable. Jews and other groups were constantly harassed. The Holocaust soon ensued.

Jews were forced to wear yellow stars, to show they were different. Many were taken and but in small cramped areas, known as ghettos. Some Jews were sent to concentration camps. Squads were sent to find and kill Jews after the army went through.

Extermination camps became a reality. Jews from everywhere in Europe were caught and sent to camps.  Approximately 6 million jews were killed.