<h2 style="text-align: center;">Early Greece</h2>
The Greeks had a shared language and worshipped the same Gods, however the region was very fragmented. The mountains an waterways proved to be barriers. The Greeks organized themselves into small nations centered at cities. These city states often had different forms of government. Some states had kings. Many had oligarchies. The city-state Athens had the earliest known democracy although slaves, women and people without property were excluded from voting. Athens was the most sophisticated city-state due to naval strength and the domination of trade. Sparta was a culture entirely based on raising males for war. Their economy was based on slave labor. The Greeks came up with the scientific Method, drama and philosophy. Arts flourished in Athens.

Despite their decentralization, the Greek city-states allied together with Athens and Sparta to avoid conquest by the persians. The early Olympics allowed for friendly rivalries and periods of peace between the city-states. The peace, however, was short lived as Athens and Sparta began to fight in the Peloponnesian War. This war left the peninsula weak.

From Macedonia, emerged a large fighting force led by Alexander the Great. Greece, Egypt, Persia and Central Asia all fell to his conquest. As Alexander identified with Greece, Hellenistic culture was spread throughout his empire. In a city named after himself, He built a great library known as the Library of Alexandria. This became a center of trade and learning. It was eventually burned to the ground.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Rome and Carthage</h2>
Roman society was greatly influenced by Greece. They essentially shared the same religion (with renamed gods) and both languages were based off of the Phoenician alphabet. Rome used a representative democracy (a republic) as its government. It had a law code known as the twelve tables. Rome had great class distinction; there was much tension between plebeian and patrician classes. The patrician class controlled the senate and officials, known as consuls. Rome through conquest took the Italian peninsula.

Carthage was society that was also derived from the Phoenician culture. They had judges and a senate to make political decisions. Leaders were chosen from the wealthy, but there was social mobility. Carthage built a powerful navy to start an empire.

Carthage and Rome would clash in a series of conflicts known as the Punic Wars. Hannibal, a bold general, led Carthage to many early victories. He used extreme tactics such as using elephants in war. The Roman general Scipio eventually won the third war for room by directly attacking Carthage. The Romans burned the city and salted the agricultural field so it would never again become a dominant force in the Mediterranean. Afterward Rome conquered Greece and parts of Turkey and Egypt.

Rapid expansion caused corruption and more problems for the poor. A larger quantity of slaves made grain prices greatly drop making the poor worse off. The plebeians rioted in large mobs. The upper class was terrified, so politicians raised armies to put the uprisings down. Leaders of these armies often fought over power leading to civil wars. Julius Caesar eventually eliminated his rivals, had his army cross the Rubicon River and take Rome. Caesar was declared dictator for life. Caesar was assassinated. His adopted son Augustus restored order and made himself the first emperor. Rome experienced a cultural high point know as pax Romana, as no infighting occurred. Eventually the empire adopted Christianity as it's official religion.

Jewish populations would often act up. To combat this, Jews were forced to migrate in a process known as Jewish Diaspora. This scattered Jews across the empire which allowed for them to become successful merchants with extensive trade networks.

Due to longstanding corruption, large deficits and internal stress, the Empire eventually split into two: the Roman Empire and the Byzantine Empire. Without the eastern half of the empires wealth, the Roman Empire was in further debt. Attacks from barbarians led to the destruction of the empire.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Persian Empire</h2>
The Persian empire started with the Achaemenid Dynasty. Through conquest the Persians learned of metal coinage. There was a highly organized government. There was one dictator. There were roads, a uniform currency, a postal service, localized governments. There were two capitals: Susa (for the holding together of the empire) and Persepolis (to wow citizens and nations). The empire was tolerant of all religions. The dynasty fell to Alexander the Great. Parthian Persia arose as a combination of both cultures. The empire grew wealth from trade along the Silk Road. The Sassanid Empire replaced the Parthian. The Sassanid Empire was eventually destroyed, due to Islamic expansion.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Early American Societies</h2>
Mesoamerican societies were built upon foundation left by the Olmecs. Different city-states existed. They frequently traded and fought yet shared a common culture. Most were ruled by dictators and priests. Women had little autonomy. They worshipped many gods and practiced human sacrifice.

Teotihuacan was a large city. The people worshipped the sun and the moon and Quetzalcoatl. Teotihucan had advanced irrigation systems involving terraces and drained swamps. There were floating gardens called chinampas. Maya had forty competing city-states. The maya had hieroglyphic writing. There was a clear interest in mathematics and sciences. There was an elaborate calendar. There was advanced astronomy. The maya had come up with zero.

There was also a civilization in the Andes. They had a system of knots to communicate called quipu. Land was owned communally. People lived in clans known as ayllu. There was obligated service called mit'a.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Indian Empires</h2>
Indo-Europeans known as Aryans invaded India. The Mauryan Empire was the first unified India. They traded cotton, iron and salt. They had high taxes and spies to check for obedience. There was an elaborate bureaucracy. An Emperor  named Ashoke was a cruel tyrant who massacred many. Eventually, Ashoka converted to Buddhism. He became peaceful and allowed for religious tolerance.

The Gupta Empire rose later. It based itself of the highly successful Mauryan Empire. They taxed their people. The rulers were Hindu, but tolerance was practiced. The decimal system, the idea of pi and the idea of zero were created. women could not own property. Some women would burn themselves if their husbands died.
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Chinese Societies</h2>
Effective organization allowed China to be ruled be the Qin dynasty. Shi Huandi standardized weights and measures. The Chinese army became successful because of calvary, iron weapons and crossbows. The Qin followed a strict policy of legalism, which emphasized absolute power of the dictator. Forced labor allowed for extreme engineering projects to occur. Canals, roads and the Great Wall were all built using this labor. Due to extreme discontent rebellion overthrew the dynasty.

The Han Dynasty came after. They demanded tribute from weaker neighboring states. The rulers were thought to have the Mandate of Heaven, which meant rulers were divinely chosen as they would be best for the people. This thought stopped rebellion. The philosopher Confucius' idea that there were guidelines to every relationship caught on. Rulers understood they had to rule kindly. China produced silk exclusively and became a dominant trading force. Outside invasions led to the societies downfall.